As I’ve been deeply engrossed in tackling the ongoing conflict between Israel and Palestine, I’ve become increasingly aware of the widespread bias present on both sides of this complex and longstanding issue. It is important to mention, my perspective aligns with supporting Palestine. The media I will be analyzing for this project are a collection of artworks made by my friends.
A Moldy Orange by Alyssa at a high level view is about Palestinian people, who are experiencing genocide in real time. The context of this image appears to stem from creator Bisan Odwa’s Instagram post detailing her ordeal during the 65 days of genocide. In her post, she shares a photo of her breakfast, illustrating the scarcity of citrus fruits amidst the bombings. She mentions resorting to consuming any available food, even if it’s moldy, acknowledging the health risks but questioning the significance of health in the face of such adversity. Although no one wants a moldy orange, it is their only option. It is hard enough to survive in the conditions they’re living in as is…to search for food and eat the moldy fruits they find is what Palestinians are limited to. Trauma will be generational, who knows what health issues they will have to face. TikTok creator Jordan Simone returns, “These are not harrowing survival tales. These are tragedies written in every moldy orange peel.” She makes the point that if a bomb or immediate starvation doesn’t kill them, then months of eating moldy fruit just might. The brutality of this war goes much deeper than the obvious violence of bombs, white phosphorus and sniper rifles. What makes this even more special, and adds to the depth of this work is that it was illustrated on stationery from “Seasons Guide Vol. 2” By Holiday Lim and Sarah Wong which includes a paper airplane, dandelions, and the words printed on the bottom, "Together we could pass or cause to pass gently and easily through or as if through the air…" This statement feels relevant to the Palestinian experience as they call for solidarity from the international community. The stationery adds another layer to this work, as it is normally utilized to send greetings, but Alyssa decided to use it to spread an important message.   
Wednesday's "All eyes on Rafah" is in response to the ongoing Genocide in Palestine, specifically when Israel hit Rafah after explicitly designating it as a safe zone. The stars in the images likely represent the distance from the US to Rafah City, a Palestinian City in the Southern Gaza Strip. “I refuse to look away.” This statement holds a lot of power, it is important that we continue to hold ourselves accountable and be aware of what is going on for humanity’s sake. To refuse to look away is to be radicalized after seeing our powerful government fail us and fail others — in result we mobilize to support Palestine. Different ways in which people are mobilizing to support Palestine include boycotting, protesting, and creating art. A Palestinian poet said, “Whenever you face injustice or roughness, remember to defend yourself by finding beauty … document, prove, and defend it because all beauty is resistance.” The birds in these images represent the national bird of the State of Palestine, the Palestine sunbird. The Palestine sunbird was declared the national bird of Palestine in 2015 after the Israeli occupation authorities tried to change its name in their efforts to erase Palestinian identity. I believe it is a symbol of Palestinian identity, solidarity, and unity. The sunbird symbolizes the Palestinian natural heritage, “Although birding, writing, or painting can be seen as simple means of expression, they are, in fact, very powerful in confronting any force that tries to erase our existence” (https://thisweekinpalestine.com/the-palestine-sunbird/).
Both artist’s works extend a message that may be interpreted on a surface level as a metaphor for resilience and hope, but there is much more to their work. The narrative that connects them both is that they are sharing the reality of their existence, that they are constantly living in fear and they have no choice BUT to have hope that things will get any better. My friends using their creative skills to tell a story is so meaningful to me, their work holds so much power especially during a time where we have the privilege to not necessarily need to worry about being directly affected by the war. But they are willing to produce something that provokes others in a radical way.